# NBA-Interactive-Database
Created an NBA interactive relational database to display player profiles. Used open source (Kaggle) to obtain NBA information. Used Python to analyze the database to extract information from the DB Browser to structure an array. 
## Code
When running my python code you will see there are 14 options to choose from. The first option is the Elite scores function. It returns the names of the player who total career points are above the number entered, in no set order and the seasonal stats database was used. I would recommend entering a number greater than 15,000 or the program will take forever and print out a lot of names. This is a very basic query but it was the first one I wrote and it was the first thing that came to my mind because I saw an ESPN article talking about total career points of players. The second option was theclub and that found all the players who have shot 50 percent from the field, 40 percent from three and 90 percent from the free throw line using the seasonal stats database. The third option AveragePoints finds a career average of points of the player name entered using the seasonal stats database. The only catch is you have to add the %sign after each name because the Hall of Famers has an * after their name. So I had to use the like option in sqlite when writing my query. The fourth option findteammates finds all the members from a team during the year entered using the seasonal stats database. When entering the team name you have to use their three-letter abbreviation because that is what the use in the database. The fifth option finds the player who has had a triple-double in a game during the 2016-2017 season using the player boxscore database. It returns the name of the player and the team it was done against. Options 6 through 6-9 are very similar and return the top 10 scorers, assists, rebounds, and steals all using the seasonal database. Each one category returns the players name in order and the total amount for that category. Option 10 returns a players average points scored in the 2016-2017 using the player boxscore database. Option 11 returns the season high points, the team it was against and the day of the game of the player entered. This used the player boxscore database.  Option 12 used both databases and it found the player who scored 50 points during a game during the 2016-2017 season and has a career average above 20 points. The last option is a product query that finds the group of players who scored 40 points against each other in the same game. 

## Known Bugs
Now some of the problems I had with the database was mentioned earlier about the * being behind the names of Hall of Famers. For example, this was Micheal Jordan* name in the database. It was a headache to deal with because of whenever I searched for his name it wouldn’t pop up. It also took me forever to figure out why the * was there. Another problem with the database is when a player was traded it would combine its stats from both teams in a whole another row. Making some of the data inaccurate.
   
    
